[unifiaccess] Unifi access binding initial contribution (#19412)
openhab/openhab-addons: bundles/org.openhab.binding.unifiaccess/README.md

# UniFi Access Binding

![logo](doc/logo.png)

> 

Reviewer: Logo can be added afterwards. Please remove from the docs here.

This binding integrates Ubiquiti UniFi Access with openHAB.
It connects to your UniFi Access controller over HTTPS and listens for live door events while exposing channels to monitor and control door locks.

## Supported Things

- `unifiaccess:bridge` (Bridge): The UniFi Access controller instance.
  Required to discover and manage door things.
- `unifiaccess:door`: A UniFi Access door with status and control channels.

> - `unifiaccess:device`: A UniFi Access device (reader, hub, or camera) with device-level status and controls.

Reviewer: no need to add the binding id.

```suggestion
- `bridge` (Bridge): The UniFi Access controller instance.
  Required to discover and manage door things.
- `door`: A UniFi Access door with status and control channels.
- `device`: A UniFi Access device (reader, hub, or camera) with device-level status and controls.
```

## Discovery

- Add the `Bridge` by entering the controller Hostname or IP and an API Token.

> - Once the Bridge is ONLINE, Doors are discovered automatically and appear in the Inbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once the `bridge` is ONLINE, `door`s are discovered automatically and appear in the Inbox.
```

- Approve discovered doors and devices to add them to your system, or create them manually using `deviceId`.

## Binding Configuration

There are no global binding settings.
All configuration is on the Bridge and on individual Door and Device things.

## Thing Configuration

> ### Bridge `unifiaccess:bridge`

Reviewer: Also check other places
```suggestion
### Bridge `bridge`
```

| doorbell        | Events: `incoming`, `incoming-ren`, `completed`                                                                                                      | Fires on doorbell events.                      |
| doorbell-status | Events: `DOORBELL_TIMED_OUT`, `ADMIN_REJECTED_UNLOCK`, `ADMIN_UNLOCK_SUCCEEDED`, `VISITOR_CANCELED_DOORBELL`, `ANSWERED_BY_ANOTHER_ADMIN`, `UNKNOWN` | Fires on doorbell status changes.              |
| log-insight     | Payload: JSON with `logKey`, `eventType`, `message`, `published`, `result`, common refs                                                              | Fires for insights log events for this device. |

## Full Examples (Textual Configuration)

Replace the IDs with your own thing and item names.
Examples assume a Bridge UID of `ua` and a Door UID of `frontdoor`.

### Things (`.things`)

```
Bridge unifiaccess:bridge:ua "UniFi Access" [ host="192.168.1.20", authToken="YOUR_LONG_TOKEN" ] {
    Thing unifiaccess:door:frontdoor [ deviceId="60546f80e4b0abcd12345678" ]
}
```

### Items (`.items`)

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
```
